README.md, before:

# raytracer
A toy raytracer I wrote using Go, in a fit of pandemic-induced boredom. I've never formally studied computer graphics so
it was a neat introduction to many concepts as well as a good refresher on basic geometry and vector math.

![Example render of spheres](https://i.imgur.com/cPF2zAB.png)

### Geometric objects
The raytracer supports the following types of scene objects:
* Planes
* Spheres
* Discs
* Boxes (rectangular prisms)

### Lighting and shading
The raytracer simulates two different kinds of light sources:
* *Point lights*, which have a defined location and cast light omnidirectionally, and
* *Distant lights*, which illuminate surfaces from a fixed direction.

Soft shadows are simulated by randomly varying the location/direction of a light across many samples.

Surfaces have a diffuse component, a refractive component, and a reflective component. Only two kinds of diffuse
textures are currently supported: solid colors, and an alternating "checkerboard" pattern of two colors.

### Other rendering features
#### Anti-aliasing
To prevent jagged lines from appearing where the scene has edges, the raytracer supports supersampling, in which
multiple rays are cast for one pixel and the results averaged together.

#### Depth of field
The raytracer can produce a "depth of field" effect (blurred foreground/background) by simulating a camera lens having a
non-zero-radius aperture and a finite focal distance; multiple rays are cast back from the focal plane through random
points in the aperture, and the results are averaged together.

#### Parallel processing
The rendering algorithm divides the image into multiple work units and distributes them across a pool of worker
goroutines, using channels for coordination.

### Missing features
Some of the obvious features this raytracer doesn't support are:
* Reflections of lights off of reflective surfaces
* Refraction of shadow rays (rays cast from a shaded point to a light source)
* Performance optimizations to not supersample pixels that don't need it (currently, rendering a 4K version of the scene
above takes several hours on a quad-core PC)

### Acknowledgements
I found the articles at [scratchapixel.com](https://www.scratchapixel.com/) really helpful for understanding many of the
concepts underlying a raytracer.

Commit message:

Add animation example to README.

README.md, after:

# raytracer
A toy raytracer I wrote using Go, in a fit of pandemic-induced boredom. I've never formally studied computer graphics so
it was a neat introduction to many concepts as well as a good refresher on basic geometry and vector math.

![Example render of spheres](https://i.imgur.com/cPF2zAB.png)

### Geometric objects
The raytracer supports the following types of scene objects:
* Planes
* Spheres
* Discs
* Boxes (rectangular prisms)

### Lighting and shading
The raytracer simulates two different kinds of light sources:
* *Point lights*, which have a defined location and cast light omnidirectionally, and
* *Distant lights*, which illuminate surfaces from a fixed direction.

Soft shadows are simulated by randomly varying the location/direction of a light across many samples.

Surfaces have a diffuse component, a refractive component, and a reflective component. Only two kinds of diffuse
textures are currently supported: solid colors, and an alternating "checkerboard" pattern of two colors.

### Other rendering features
#### Anti-aliasing
To prevent jagged lines from appearing where the scene has edges, the raytracer supports supersampling, in which
multiple rays are cast for one pixel and the results averaged together.

#### Depth of field
The raytracer can produce a "depth of field" effect (blurred foreground/background) by simulating a camera lens having a
non-zero-radius aperture and a finite focal distance; multiple rays are cast back from the focal plane through random
points in the aperture, and the results are averaged together.

#### Parallel processing
The rendering algorithm divides the image into multiple work units and distributes them across a pool of worker
goroutines, using channels for coordination.

#### Animation
The binary takes a `-frame` parameter which can be used in the scene setup code to vary any parameter over time. After
rendering each frame into a separate PNG, you can use a tool like FFmpeg to combine the separate frames into a video.
Here's an example animation of the focal distance changing from the frontmost sphere to the rearmost sphere and back:

![Example animation](https://i.imgur.com/7gSu3Z0.gif)

### Missing features
Some of the obvious features this raytracer doesn't support are:
* Reflections of lights off of reflective surfaces
* Refraction of shadow rays (rays cast from a shaded point to a light source)
* Performance optimizations to not supersample pixels that don't need it (currently, rendering a 4K version of the scene
above takes several hours on a quad-core PC)

### Acknowledgements
I found the articles at [scratchapixel.com](https://www.scratchapixel.com/) really helpful for understanding many of the
concepts underlying a raytracer.
